There is no shortage of jazz interpretations of Gershwin’s opera Porgy and Bess, including entries in the 
canon by Oscar Peterson, Ralph Burns and Mundell Lowe. The Gil Evans and Miles Davis collaboration is perhaps 
the most famous, while the most unjustly obscure is the Bill Potts gem The Jazz Soul of Porgy and Bess. But right 
up there with the best of them was the 1957 double album from Verve featuring Ella Fitzgerald and Louis Armstrong.

The unsung hero of these sessions, though, is the arranger and conductor Russ Garcia. A 
mainstay of Verve in the 1950s, Garcia lived to be 95 and kept working until the end. 
Active in film scoring as well as jazz (he was swindled out of an Oscar) he was an arranger 
of genius and wrote the book on the subject — literally (The Professional Arranger Composer, 
still in print after over half a century).

But whether you approach Porgy and Bess as a fan of Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Armstrong or Russ 
Garcia, you are in for treat. The album has been reissued a number of times over the years, 
but never like this. Speakers Corner Records have gone the extra mile, creating an exact 
replica of the original Verve double LP set, including the handsome ten page booklet and David 
Stone Martin illustration. This is a lavish package and, most importantly, the sound quality of the vinyl is stunning.

The program begins with a lengthy instrumental Overture which previews the themes, and 
hints at the quality of the players involved (the cream of the Los Angeles and Chicago 
sessions scenes). The swaggering brass take on It Ain’t Necessarily So is a particular 
highlight here. But soon the stars take over.

Louis Armstrong makes his trumpet début on Summertime a few seconds before Ella begins to 
sing, and we are off to the races immediately. When Armstrong also starts to sing, on the 
second verse, the album moves into the stratosphere. Paul Smith’s lovely, reflective piano 
is particularly noteworthy amongst the accompaniment.

Louis Armstrong is at his vocal best on I’ve Got Plenty of Nothing, giving a soulful and 
gritty performance. Then Ella Fitzgerald comes in and it’s like sandpaper and satin. Any 
tendency to take Ella’s immense vocal gift for granted is nullified by the constant contrast 
provided by Armstrong. Each is a giant in their own way.