"Tight" is the word that most readily comes to mind to describe this 
band's playing. For Reflections, his tenth release as a leader for the 
Dutch Criss Cross label, trombonist Conrad Herwig has joined forces with 
Russian tenor man Igor Butman as co-leader. Rounding out the front-line 
is trumpeter extraordinaire Alex Sipiagin, a name that will be very 
familiar to anyone who keeps up with Criss Cross releases. The music 
on this disc, beautifully recorded and mixed by Michael Marciano, 
falls mostly into the "straight-ahead" category and relies on the exceptional talents of the players and 
the chemistry they achieve together to bring excitement to the music.

The program consists of five Herwig originals, two tunes 
contributed by Butman, and a swinging take on Gershwin's 
"Who Cares?" The three horn players blend well together and 
achieve a sound that is at times reminiscent of the classic 
Shorter/Hubbard/Fuller incarnation of the Jazz Messengers. 
Also in that spirit, each of the horn players seems eager to 
speak his piece and lead the band in a new direction. On five 
of the eight tunes Butman leads off the solo sections and never 
fails to impress with his warm, dark tone and long, coherent phrases 
that burn with an understated fire. Herwig follows suit with solos that 
often culminate in acrobatic displays of agility in the upper range of the 
trombone. Sipiagin also rises to the occasion magnificently and contributes 
some mind-blowing solos as well.

Swing is the dominant feel of the session but there are a 
few exceptions. The second track, "King of the Mountain" has a modern 
straight-eighth feel and is one of the standout tracks of the set, 
with all the soloists doing some of their best work. The title track 
is a delicate tastefully-done ballad. As it's name implies, "Samba De Igor" 
has a relaxed Brazilian feel and Herwig's "Olvidame," which (judging by its title) 
one might expect to have a Latin feel as well, is actually pure funk. Overall, the 
musicianship and sympathy displayed on this recording makes it a rewarding experience 
that is worth several listens.